.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH VZLOGGER 1 "June  12, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
vzlogger \- program for logging measurements to a volkszaehler.org middelware
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvzlogger\fP [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvzlogger\fP...
.TP
\fB*\fR is a tiny shell tool to log measurements of a wide variety of smartmeters, sensors & protocols against the volkszaehler.org middleware.
.TP
\fB*\fR can run as a daemon or can be invoked periodically by cron.
.TP
\fB*\fR includes a tiny onboard httpd to serve realtime readings to the ajax web frontend.
.TP
\fB*\fR is written in pure ansi c and should run on most embedded devices.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.

.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-config\fR
config file with channel \-> uuid mapping
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-daemon\fR
run as daemon
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-local\fR
activate local interface (tiny webserver)
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-local\-port\fR
TCP port for local interface
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
show summary of options
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
enable verbose output
.TP
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR
show version

.SH PROTOCOLS
Following protocol types are supported:
.TP
\fB1wire\fR
Dallas 1\-Wire sensors (via OWFS)
.TP
\fBobis\fR
Plaintext OBIS
.TP
\fBrandom\fR
Random walk
.TP
\fBrawS0\fR
S0 on RS232

.SH BUGS
Currenty there are no known bugs.
Please report bugs to http://bugs.volkszaehler.org
.SH SEE ALSO
vzlogger is documented in more detail on the wiki page: http://wiki.volkszaehler.org/software/controller/vzlogger
